# Codes for simulation study 1 and simulation study 2
This folder includes the source code for the two simulation studies

## I. Simulation study 1
* Mutation rate larger than 1e-4 (etimators with "exact" simulator)
    * simu1gendata_orisim.m: Generate 100 simulated dataset using the "exact" simulator.
    * simu1_orisim_statlnx9.m: Estimate constant mutation rate for data generated by the "exact" simulator, using both ABC-MCMC and GPS-ABC.
* Mutation rate smaller than 1e-4 (estimators with "fast" simulator)
    * simulation1.m: Generate 100 simulated dataset using the "fast" simulator and apply GPS-ABC estimator `ABC_mu1` on a simulated dataset on one of them.
    * simulation1_serve.mr: a function to run one replicate in simulation 1 for mutation rate from 1e-8 to 1e-4 using GPS-ABC estimator.
    * simulation1_MCMC_server.m: a function to run one replicate in simulation study 1 for mutation rate from 1e-8 to 1e-4 using ABC-MCMC estimator.
   
* ../traning/simu1/*.mat : initial training samples for fitting GP surrogate model.

*Note*: To run 100 replicates on server, detailed instructions are given in the header comments of the scripts.

## II. Simulation study 2
* simulation2.m: Generate 100 simulated datasets using the "fast" simulatorapply GPS-ABC estimator defined in `ABC_mu2a` on a simulated dataset.
* simulation2_server.m: a function to run one replicate in simulation study 1 using GPS-ABC estimator.
* ../training/init_2a.mat: initial training samples for fitting GP surrogate model.

*Note*: To run 100 replicates on server, detailed instructions are given in the header comments of the scripts.
